There's a trick to the Graceful Exit.  It begins with the vision to
recognize when a job, a life stage, a relationship is over -- and to let
go.  It means leaving what's over without denying its validity or its
past importance in our lives.  It involves a sense of future, a belief
that every exit line is an entry, that we are moving on, rather than out.
The trick of retiring well may be the trick of living well.  It's hard to
recognize that life isn't a holding action, but a process.  It's hard to
learn that we don't leave the best parts of ourselves behind, back in the
dugout or the office. We own what we learned back there.  The experiences
and the growth are grafted onto our lives.  And when we exit, we can take
ourselves along -- quite gracefully.
                -- Ellen Goodman
%
First Law of Procrastination:
        Procrastination shortens the job and places the responsibility
        for its termination on someone else (i.e., the authority who
        imposed the deadline).

Fifth Law of Procrastination:
        Procrastination avoids boredom; one never has the feeling that
        there is nothing important to do.
%
On two occasions I have been asked [by members of Parliament!], "Pray, Mr.
Babbage, if you put into the machine wrong figures, will the right answers
come out?"  I am not able rightly to apprehend the kind of confusion of
ideas that could provoke such a question.
                -- Charles Babbage
%
The mark of the immature man is that he wants to die nobly for a cause,
while the mark of a mature man is that he wants to live humbly for one.
                -- Wilhelm Stekel
%
we:
        The single most important word in the world
%
The difference between art and science is that science is what we
understand well enough to explain to a computer.  Art is everything else.
                -- Donald Knuth, "Discover"
%
Great spirits have always encountered violent opposition from mediocre minds.
                -- Albert Einstein
%
They laughed at Einstein.  They laughed at the Wright Brothers.  But they
also laughed at Bozo the Clown.
                -- Carl Sagan
%
Distrust all those who love you extremely upon a very slight acquaintance
and without any visible reason.
                -- Lord Chesterfield
%
        A manager went to his programmers and told them: "As regards to your
work hours: you are going to have to come in at nine in the morning and leave
at five in the afternoon."  At this, all of them became angry and several
resigned on the spot.
        So the manager said: "All right, in that case you may set your own
working hours, as long as you finish your projects on schedule."  The
programmers, now satisfied, began to come in a noon and work to the wee
hours of the morning.
                -- Geoffrey James, "The Tao of Programming"
%
The error of youth is to believe that intelligence is a substitute for
experience, while the error of age is to believe experience is a substitute
for intelligence.
                -- Lyman Bryson
%
If I don't drive around the park,
I'm pretty sure to make my mark.
If I'm in bed each night by ten,
I may get back my looks again.
If I abstain from fun and such,
I'll probably amount to much;
But I shall stay the way I am,
Because I do not give a damn.
                -- Dorothy Parker
%
Even in the moment of our earliest kiss,
When sighed the straitened bud into the flower,
Sat the dry seed of most unwelcome this;
And that I knew, though not the day and hour.
Too season-wise am I, being country-bred,
To tilt at autumn or defy the frost:
Snuffing the chill even as my fathers did,
I say with them, "What's out tonight is lost."
I only hoped, with the mild hope of all
Who watch the leaf take shape upon the tree,
A fairer summer and a later fall
Than in these parts a man is apt to see,
And sunny clusters ripened for the wine:
I tell you this across the blackened vine.
                -- Edna St. Vincent Millay, "Even in the Moment of
                   Our Earliest Kiss", 1931
%
Hlade's Law:
        If you have a difficult task, give it to a lazy person --
        they will find an easier way to do it.
%
There is an innocence in admiration; it is found in those to whom it
has not yet occurred that they, too, might be admired some day.
                -- Friedrich Nietzsche
%
I believe that part of what propels science is the thirst for wonder.  It's a
very powerful emotion.  All children feel it.  In a first grade classroom
everybody feels it; in a twelfth grade classroom almost nobody feels it, or
at least acknowledges it.  Something happens between first and twelfth grade,
and it's not just puberty.  Not only do the schools and the media not teach
much skepticism, there is also little encouragement of this stirring sense
of wonder.  Science and pseudoscience both arouse that feeling.  Poor
popularizations of science establish an ecological niche for pseudoscience.
- Carl Sagan, The Burden Of Skepticism, The Skeptical Inquirer, Vol. 12, Fall 87
%
"Picture the sun as the origin of two intersecting 6-dimensional
hyperplanes from which we can deduce a certain transformational
sequence which gives us the terminal velocity of a rubber duck ..."
%
The soldier came knocking upon the queen's door.
He said, "I am not fighting for you any more."
The queen knew she had seen his face someplace before,
And slowly she let him inside.

He said, "I see you now, and you're so very young,
But I've seen more battles lost than I have battles won,
And I have this intuition that it's all for your fun.
And now will you tell me why?"
                -- Suzanne Vega, "The Queen and The Soldier"
%
It is so stupid of modern civilisation to have given up believing in the
devil when he is the only explanation of it.
                -- Ronald Knox, "Let Dons Delight"
%
It's odd, and a little unsettling, to reflect upon the fact that
English is the only major language in which "I" is capitalized; in many
other languages "You" is capitalized and the "i" is lower case.
                -- Sydney J. Harris
%
If you put tomfoolery into a computer, nothing comes out but tomfoolery.
But this tomfoolery, having passed through a very expensive machine,
is somehow enobled and no-one dare criticise it.
                -- Pierre Gallois
%
Everyone can be taught to sculpt: Michelangelo would have had to be
taught how not to.  So it is with the great programmers.
%
After a while you learn the subtle difference
Between holding a hand and chaining a soul,
And you learn that love doesn't mean security,
And you begin to learn that kisses aren't contracts
And presents aren't promises
And you begin to accept your defeats
With your head up and your eyes open,
With the grace of a woman, not the grief of a child,
And you learn to build all your roads
On today because tomorrow's ground
Is too uncertain.  And futures have
A way of falling down in midflight,
After a while you learn that even sunshine burns if you get too much.
So you plant your own garden and decorate your own soul, instead of waiting
For someone to bring you flowers.
And you learn that you really can endure...
That you really are strong,
And you really do have worth
And you learn and learn
With every goodbye you learn.
                -- Veronic Shoffstall, "Comes the Dawn"
%
Evolution is a million line computer program falling into place by accident.
%
program, n.:
        A magic spell cast over a computer allowing it to turn one's input
        into error messages.  tr.v. To engage in a pastime similar to banging
        one's head against a wall, but with fewer opportunities for reward.
%
No two persons ever read the same book.
                -- Edmund Wilson
%
        Looking for a cool one after a long, dusty ride, the drifter strode
into the saloon.  As he made his way through the crowd to the bar, a man
galloped through town screaming, "Big Mike's comin'!  Run fer yer lives!"
        Suddenly, the saloon doors burst open.  An enormous man, standing over
eight feet tall and weighing an easy 400 pounds, rode in on a bull, using a
rattlesnake for a whip.  Grabbing the drifter by the arm and throwing him over
the bar, the giant thundered, "Gimme a drink!"
        The terrified man handed over a bottle of whiskey, which the man
guzzled in one gulp and then smashed on the bar.  He then stood aghast as
the man stuffed the broken bottle in his mouth, munched broken glass and
smacked his lips with relish.
        "Can I, ah, uh, get you another, sir?" the drifter stammered.
        "Naw, I gotta git outa here, boy," the man grunted.  "Big Mike's
a-comin'."
%
Before you ask more questions, think about whether you really want to
know the answers.
                -- Gene Wolfe, "The Claw of the Conciliator"
%
Now that day wearies me,
My yearning desire
Will receive more kindly,
Like a tired child, the starry night.

Hands, leave off your deeds,
Mind, forget all thoughts;
All of my forces
Yearn only to sink into sleep.

And my soul, unguarded,
Would soar on widespread wings,
To live in night's magical sphere
More profoundly, more variously.
                -- Hermann Hesse, "Going to Sleep"
%
A little word of doubtful number,
A foe to rest and peaceful slumber.
If you add an "s" to this,
Great is the metamorphosis.
Plural is plural now no more,
And sweet what bitter was before.
What am I?
%
I was working on a case.  It had to be a case, because I couldn't afford a
desk.  Then I saw her.  This tall blond lady.  She must have been tall
because I was on the third floor.  She rolled her deep blue eyes towards
me.  I picked them up and rolled them back.  We kissed.  She screamed.  I
took the cigarette from my mouth and kissed her again.
%
The Moving Finger writes; and, having writ,
        Moves on: nor all thy Piety nor Wit
Shall lure it back to cancel half a Line,
        Nor all thy Tears wash out a Word of it.
%
"Life is like a tiny grain of sand.  You get settled in and then someone comes
and steps on you, or the wind blows you to a totally different place; sometimes
a better place, but most of the time it screws you up for a while."
		-Beth Wright (after Surf City)
%
Laurie shook his head.  "No, Pug.  There are many ways to love someone.  
Sometimes we want love so much, we're not too choosy about who we love.  Other
times we make love such a pure and noble thing, no poor human can ever meet 
our vision.  But for the most part, love is a recognition, an opportunity to 
say, 'There is something about you I cherish.'  It doesn't entail marriage, or
even physical love.  There's love of parents, love of city or nation, love of
life, and love of people.  All different, all love."
-Raymond E. Feist - Magician: Master
%
So we beat on, boats against the currents, borne back ceaselessly into the 
past.
-F. Scott Fitzgerald
%
	No man, for any considerable period, can wear one face to himself, 
and another to the multitude, without finally getting bewildered as to which 
may be true.
-Nathaniel Hawthorne
%
   Thorne shrugged.  "They're still just fantasies.  They're not real.  Have 
you ever seen a self-esteem?  Can you bring me one on a plate?  How about a 
photon? Can you bring me one of those?"
   Kelly shook her head.  "No, but..."
   "And you never will, because those things don't exist.  No matter how 
seriously people take them," Thorne said.  "A hundred years from now, people 
will look back at us and laugh.  They'll say, 'You know what people used to 
believe?  They believed in photons and electrons.  Can you imagine anything so 
silly?'  They'll have a good laugh, because by then there will be newer and 
better fantasies."  Thorne shook his head.  "And meanwhile, you feel the way 
the boat moves?  That's the sea.  That's real.  You smell the salt in the air?
You feel the sunlight on your skin?  That's all real.  You see all of us 
together?  That's real.  Life is wonderful.  It's a gift to be alive, to see 
the sun and breath the air.  And there isn't really anything else."
	-Michael Crichton, The Lost World
%
	...Kulgan said, "The sort of enchantment I am speaking of is nothing 
you can teach.  It's not the sort of magic men can employ at whim.  It's a 
magic the gods have given only to a few lucky men and women.  It's the magic 
of a love so real and profound that nothing can change you back once you've 
know it."
		-Raymond E. Feist, Prince of the Blood
%
	"Not nonsense.  Never fall into the trap of judging that which you 
don't understand as nonsense.  That error can destroy you."
		-Pug to James in Raymond E. Feist's Prince of the Blood
%
	Tomas did not look at his friend as he spoke.  "Nothing is forever, 
Pug."  Then he looked at Pug, who saw a strange light in his friend's eyes, 
as if Tomas were poised for battle.  "Nothing.  Immortality, power, dominance,
all are illusions.  Don't you see? We are simply pawns in a game beyond our 
understanding."
	Pug let his eyes sweep over the ancient city, its strange assortment 
of buildings half-overgrown with lianas.  "That is what humbles me most."
		-Raymond E. Feist, A Darkness at Sethanon
%
The only way to have a friend is to be one.
		-Ralph Waldo Emerson
%
"I don't like the thing that's happening to people, Miss Taggart."
"What?"
"I don't know.  But I've watched them here for twenty years and I've seen the 
change.  They used to rush through here, and it was wonderful to watch, it was
the hurry of men who knew where they were going and were eager to get there.  
Now they're hurrying because they are afraid.  It's not purpose that drives 
them, it's fear.  They're not going anywhere, they're escaping.  And I don't 
think they know what it is that they want to escape.  They don't look at one 
another.  They jerk when brushed against.  They smile too much, but it's an 
ugly kind of smiling: it's not joy, it's pleading.  I don't know what it is 
that's happening to the world."
	-Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged
%
	"Who is John Galt?"
	"He means," said the fireman, "don't ask questions nobody can answer."
		-Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged
%
	"I can answer it," he [Francisco] said.  "I can tell you who is John 
Galt."
	... "John Galt is Prometheus who changed his mind.  After centuries of
being torn by vultures in payment for having brought to men the fire of the 
gods, he broke his chains and he withdrew his fire - until the day when men 
withdrew their vultures."
		-Ayn Rand, Atlas Shrugged
%
	"More weight"
		-Giles Corey in Arthur Miller's The Crucible
%
	She [Carline] sighed.  "That seems such a long time ago, Roland.  I 
was a girl then, a girl with girl's notion of what life and love were about."
Softly she said, "Some love comes like a wind off the sea, while others grow 
slowly from the seeds of friendship and kindness.  Someone once told me that."
	"Father Tully.  He was right."  He squeezed her waist.  "Either way, 
as long as you feel, you live."
		-Roland and Carline in Magician: Apprentice
		 by Raymond E. Feist
%
	The Wheel of Time turns, and Ages come and pass, leaving memories that
become legend.  Legend fades to myth, and even myth is long forgotten when the
Age that gave it birth comes again.  In one Age, called the Third Age by some,
an Age yet to come, an Age long past, a wind rose in the Mountains of Mist.  
The wind was not the beginning.  There are neither beginnings nor endings to 
the turning of the Wheel of Time.  But it was a beginning.
		-Robert Jordan.  The Eye of the World
%
	After all, we all live in Hyde River.  We all have our dragon.
		-Frank Peretti, The Oath
%
	One who knows does not speak.  One who speaks, does not know.
		-Exquivans, Star Control III
%
	You can't succeed until you're willing to risk failure.
		-Raymond E. Feist.  The King's Buccaneer
%
	Everything had changed, or at least he had changed and therefore how 
he saw things had changed.
		-Raymond E. Feist.  Rise of a Merchant Prince
%
	...never in my entire childhood did I feel like a child.  I felt like 
a person all along - the same person I am today.  I never felt that I spoke 
childishly.  I never felt that my emotions and desires were somehow less real 
that adult emotions and desires.
		-Orson Scott Card.  Introduction to Ender's Game
%
	Perhaps it's impossible to wear an identity without becoming what you 
pretend to be.
		-Orson Scott Card.  Ender's Game
%
	Maybe that's who you are, what you remember.
		-Orson Scott Card.  Ender's Game
%
	Nicole could still recite parts of her father's acceptance speech from
memory.  "I have often been asked," her father had said near the end of his 
delivery, "if I have accumulated any wisdom that I would like to share with 
future generations."  He had then looked directly at her in the audience.  "To
my precious daughter Nicole, and all the young people of the world, I offer 
one simple insight.  In my life I have found two things of priceless worth - 
learning and loving.  Nothing else - not fame, not power, not achievement for 
its own sake - can possibly have the same lasting value.  For when your life 
is over, if you can say 'I have learned' and 'I have loved,' you will also be 
able to say 'I have been happy.' "
		-Arthur C. Clarke.  Rama II
%
	"What was it that the American William Faulkner said-something about 
Sambo will be free only when all of his neighbors wake up in the morning and 
say, both to themselves and to their friends, that Sambo is free.  I [Nicole] 
think he is right.  We have seen that racial prejudice cannot be eradicated by
legislation.  Or even by education.  Each person's journey through life must 
have an epiphany, a moment of true awareness, when he or she realizes, once 
and for all, that Sambo and every other individual in the world who is in any 
way different from him or her must be free if we are to survive."
		-Arthur C. Clarke.  The Garden of Rama
%
	"While there was life, there was hope..."
		-Arthur C. Clarke.  Rendezvous With Rama
%
	"The human race has to live with its conscience.  Whatever the 
Hermians argue, survival is not everything."
		-Arthur C. Clarke.  Rendezvous With Rama
%
	"The real world always imposes itself"
		-Gentry Lee.  Bright Messengers
%
	"Honesty pays, boy.  Not in any darkness-loving, mealy-mouthed way.  
No...it pays in cold, hard cash.  People trade with you.  They hold goods for 
you, because you keep your word.  Good guards work for you, because you pay 
what you promised.  And the other thing is, if you're honest with yourself, 
then you don't lie to yourself, and you don't try and tell yourself you can do
something that's stupid.  Lying to yourself'll kill you, if it doesn't ruin 
you first."
		-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.  The Towers Of the Sunset
%
	"Truth is not an insult, not unless you are looking for deception."
		-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.  The Towers Of the Sunset
%
"The way is the way,
as the west mountains are.
The way is the way,
as solid as the sunset towers,
and the southern seas.

The way is the way,
as all life is sorrow.
The way is the way,
as all sorrow is joy."
		-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.  The Towers Of The Sunset
%
   She cleared her throat and swallowed.  "What was it like?  Loving someone 
more than life itself, and being able to be with them, and having them love you
back?"
   ...She waited.  His voice came softly.  "It was like finding the other half
of myself, and being complete, whole, for the first time in my life."
	-Terry Goodkind, Wizard's First Rule
%
"We all can be only who we are, no more, and no less, Mistress Denna."
	-Terry Goodkind, Wizard's First Rule
%
"Richard," she whispered, "I have never had a mate like you before.  I'm glad 
I will have no other.  You are a very rare person.  You are the only person 
since I was chosen who has cared that I was in pain, or done anything to stop 
it...'
	-Terry Goodkind, Wizard's First Rule
%
She gave another nod of her big head.  "Take care, Seeker.  You have the gift.
Use it.  Use everything you have to fight.  Don't give in.  Don't let him rule
you.  If you are to die, die fighting with everything you have, everything 
you know.  That is the way of a dragon."
	-Terry Goodkind, Wizard's First Rule
%
   "Do you ever take anything in life seriously?"
   "Not much.  After all, we're not exactly going to get out of it alive."  
Justen bounced the staff off the road stones and caught it.  "Might as well 
try to enjoy things along the way."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
"...Nothing in life lets you concentrate on just one thing."  Justen laughed.
Besides, it's only a game.  Life's serious enough."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
"It's real enough if people believe...The truth behind the words is what 
matters, child."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
Is life always so perverse?  Or is it that people always want what they can't 
have?
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
Through blurry eyes, he saw her and understood-finally, he thought-that the 
gift was the self and the sacrifice, not the object.  And yet the object 
created from the soul had beauty-because it was created from the soul?
	-L.E. Modesitt. Jr.,  The Order War
%
   "...That's the problem with evil.  Chaos isn't necessarily evil, but the 
Whites are evil because they want to impose their ways on others through 
force.  But the only way to fight evil is with force, and that makes the ones 
who fight it almost as bad as the evil ones.  I don't want the whole world 
becoming evil-those who are evil and those who must become evil to stop them."
   Elisabet remained silent.
   "If you let evil grow, then it takes more force to stop it, and that means 
even greater evil in the world.  That's what's wrong with the Council's view."
   Elisabet crept up the bed and put her arms around Justen.  "You're very 
brave."
   "No, I can't say that.  I'm angry.  I'm angry, and I hate the Angels and 
the Whites for putting me in this position.  If I don't do something, I'm a 
coward, and if I do, I become like the Whites, doing evil in the name of 
some ideal."
   His sister hugged him again,
   Finally, he shrugged.  "I suppose that's life."
   "You're different.  You're more serious."
   Justen forced a short laugh.  "That's life, too."
		-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
Was life always like that?  Never saying what should be said until it was too 
late?
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
"All change is dangerous," Justen affirmed.
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Order War
%
"...But I'd settle for survival."
"Don't ever settle for survival, son.  Survival isn't life..."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
"..Destruction is almost always easier than construction..."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
..."Love no one until you can love yourself, for love of another is merely 
empty flattery and self-deception for one who cannot accept himself without 
pretense."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
"Make sure you're doing this for yourself, Lerris."
I shook my head.  "Nothing's that simple."
"I guess not."  She smiled with her mouth, not her eyes.  "Then, try to do 
it mostly for your reasons."
"I'll do what I must, and we'll sort out the reasons later.  All right?"
She nodded.  "Fair enough.  I won't say to take care.  But...do come back to 
sort out those reasons."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
I shook my head.  "I'm not a great order-master."
Yelena swung onto her brown gelding.  "Then there are none."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
"I'm not sure that a wizard's seeking answers entitles him to receive them, 
any more that a ruler's starting a war entitles him to victory."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
Except Tamra had refused to accept her power, insisting that someone else 
declare her worthy; while I had kept asking for the reasons, instead of 
acting, and the reasons had nearly become an excuse for not acting.
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
Call the depths of the mind white darkness, the chaos that preceded chaos.  
Call them what you will, but they are chaos, a chaos so formless that it 
cannot bear description.
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic Of Recluse
%
And that was the real sin-the real evil-of the white wizards.  Pride.  The 
conceit that they would impose their will on the world.
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
"Stop assuming things."  She stepped around the table.
"What?"
"Like whether I would be or wouldn't be this or that.  I am.  I always have 
been."
	-L.E. Modesitt, Jr.,  The Magic of Recluse
%
All that I love loses half its pleasure if you are not there to share it.
-Clara Ortega
%
	"Only a fool walks into the future backward."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"Given the choice, Wizard Zorander, I would choose to serve one who 
bears command as a burden, to one who wears the mantle as a right."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"If you don't have the gift, then no one does.  Live free, Richard 
Cypher."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"What great adventure?  All I remember is being scared to death all 
the time and being in more trouble than I knew how to get out of."...
	"Didn't you know?  That's what an adventure is: being in trouble."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"I'm nothing more than the one who loves you with all my heart.  That 
is the only greatness I wish to live up to."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"The young don't know how dear life is.  Or how fragile."
	"Maybe that is why we all wish we were young again."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"As you well know, superstition needs no grounding in truth, but one 
rooted, it grows a strong though twisted tree."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"Sometimes that's all life is: one desperate act after another."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"You did only what you had to.  That does not diminish your virtue."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"Your loveliness is not a mask, layered over a rotten core.  It 
blossoms from the beauty inside."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"...Women have the babies, and men... And men, it would seem, are here
to kill everything.  You see, Chandalen?  Women's specialty is to bring forth 
life, and men's specialty is to take it away."
	..."The Bird Man would say not to judge all by what some do.  And 
women do not make life alone.  Men are part of that, too."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"There is nothing fair about having to fight in a war.  The only fair thing 
would be to live in peace.  The purpose of war is singular: to kill."
	"You must all understand this, for it's central to your survival.  There is 
no honor in killing, no matter the method.  Dead is dead.  Killing your enemy 
in war is done to protect the lives of those for whom you fight.  Their lives 
are no better protected by killing your enemy sword to sword than by slaying 
him while he sleeps, but only put at risk by it."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
"...my father always told me that a man had to admit his mistakes before he 
could do right in the world."
	-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"All right Sister.  As a favor to you.  But I know she doesn't want me.  If 
you love someone you don't ask them to put a collar around their neck; you 
don't send them away.  She wishes to be free.  I love her, and so I have set 
her free."
	"Someday, Richard, I hope you will realize how much she sacrificed, and the 
truth of her love.  Love is a precious thing, and should not be forgotten.  I 
don't know what your life holds in store, but someday you will find love 
again."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
	"I already know the first [Wizard's Rule].  I killed Darken Rahl with the 
first.  It states that people can be made to believe and lie, either because 
they want to believe it's true, or because they are afraid it's true."
	"And the counter to it?"
	"The secret is that there is no counter.  I must always be vigilant, 
knowing that I, too, am vulnerable, and never arrogantly believe I am immune.
I must always be alert that I can fell prey."
	"Very Good."
	"And the Second Rule?"
	Nathan's white eyebrows hooded his azure eyes.  "The Second Rule involves 
unintended results."
	"So, what is it?"
	"The Second Rule is that the greatest harm can result from the best 
intentions.  It sounds like a paradox, but kindness and good intentions can 
be an insidious path to destruction.  Sometimes doing what seems right is 
wrong, and can cause harm.  The only counter to it is knowledge, wisdom, 
forethought, and understanding the First Rule.  Even then, that is not always 
enough."
		-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
Be proud you made the right choices, Richard, the choices that allowed to 
happen what came about, but do not call arrogance to your heart be believing 
that all that happened was your doing.
	-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
"The prettiest dress I will ever have will be the dress Weselan is making me, 
because she is doing it out of friendship, and not because I commanded her to 
make it.  There is no possession to compare to friendship.  I would give up 
everything I have, and live in rags, and grub for roots, just to have one 
friend."
	-Terry Goodkind, Stone of Tears
%
Friendship is not diminished by distance or time... by suffering or silence.  
It is in these things that it roots most deeply.  It is from these things that
it flowers.
	-Pam Brown
%
one body- respect it
one mind- feed it
one life- enjoy it
	-Angela Blaikie
%
"Our bodies are our gardens, to which our wills are gardeners."
	William Shakespeare, Othello
%
A friend is one before whom I can think aloud
	~Ralph Waldo Emerson
%
No distance of place or lapse of time can lessen the friendship of those who 
are thoroughly persuaded of each other's worth.
	~Robert Southey
%
> Molly LTs (Pharoah)
   LT: it [Love] means that the person who said it anticipates seeing you, 
       being with you, touching you. it means that he or she trusts and 
       respects you and in doing so humbly asks and expects the same. it 
       means that the person that he she professes it to can hurt them 
       deeply. it means that you have enough faith in them to trust them 
       with who you are.
%
joe9II: Have you ever been in love? Horrible, isn't it? It makes you so 
vulnerable. It opens your chest and it opens your heart and it means someone 
can get inside you and mess you up. You build up all these defenses. You build
up this whole armor, for years, so nothing can hurt you, then one stupid 
person, no different from any other stupid person, wanders into your stupid 
life...
joe9II: You give them a piece of you. They don't ask for it. They do something
dumb one day like kiss you, or smile at you, and then your life isn't your 
own anymore. Love takes hostages. It gets inside you. It eats you out and 
leaves you crying in the darkness, so a simple phrase like 'maybe we should 
just be friends' turns into a glass splinter working its way into your heart.
joe9II: It hurts. Not just in the imagination. Not just in the mind. It's a 
soul-hurt, a body-hurt, a real gets-inside-you-and-rips-you-apart pain. but 
do i hate love? never
%
"You are eight years old. It is Sunday evening. You have been granted an 
extra hour before bed. The family is playing Monopoly. You have been told 
that you are big enough to join them. You lose. You are losing continuously. 
Your stomach cramps with fear. Nearly all of your possessions are gone. Your 
brothers are snatching all of the houses from your streets. The last street 
is being sold. You have to give in. You have lost. And suddenly you know 
that it is only a game. You jump up with joy and you knock the big lamp 
over. It falls on the floor and drags the teapot with it. The others are 
angry with you, but you laugh and go upstairs. You know you are nothing and 
you know you have nothing. And you know that not-to-be and not-to-have give 
immeasurable freedom."
	-Janwillem Van De Wetering
%
 There once was a man who went to a computer trade show.  Each day as
he entered, the man told the guard at the door:
        "I am a great thief, renowned for my feats of shoplifting.  Be
forewarned, for this trade show shall not escape unplundered."
        This speech disturbed the guard greatly, because there were millions
of dollars of computer equipment inside, so he watched the man carefully.
But the man merely wandered from booth to booth, humming quietly to himself.
        When the man left, the guard took him aside and searched his clothes,
but nothing was to be found.
        On the next day of the trade show, the man returned and chided the
guard saying: "I escaped with a vast booty yesterday, but today will be even
better."  So the guard watched him ever more closely, but to no avail.
        On the final day of the trade show, the guard could restrain his
curiosity no longer. "Sir Thief," he said, "I am so perplexed, I cannot live
in peace.  Please enlighten me.  What is it that you are stealing?"
        The man smiled.  "I am stealing ideas," he said.
                -- Geoffrey James, "The Tao of Programming"
%
Comparing information and knowledge is like asking whether the fatness of a
pig is more or less green than the designated hitter rule."
-- David Guaspari
%
        After his Ignoble Disgrace, Satan was being expelled from
Heaven.  As he passed through the Gates, he paused a moment in thought,
and turned to God and said, "A new creature called Man, I hear, is soon
to be created."
        "This is true," He replied.
        "He will need laws," said the Demon slyly.
        "What!  You, his appointed Enemy for all Time!  You ask for the
right to make his laws?"
        "Oh, no!"  Satan replied, "I ask only that he be allowed to
make his own."
        It was so granted.
                -- Ambrose Bierce, "The Devil's Dictionary"  
%
We should have a great many fewer disputes in the world if only words were
taken for what they are, the signs of our ideas only, and not for things
themselves.
                -- John Locke
%
And the crowd was stilled.  One elderly man, wondering at the sudden silence,
turned to the Child and asked him to repeat what he had said.  Wide-eyed,
the Child raised his voice and said once again, "Why, the Emperor has no
clothes!  He is naked!"
                -- "The Emperor's New Clothes" 
%
Kremlin shouts: without thought action is misdirected and futile
%
> [-=Witch=-] Adriana leaves quietly, for human speech is
            like a cracked drum on which we beat out rhythms
            for bears to dance to when we are trying to make
            music that will wring tears from the stars.
%
here we go, you're really in for it now...  stop now or forever hold your 
peace...  yes life is hectic and chaotic, but all at the same time blissful 
and overwhelming, but also in the same sentence miserable and uncertain.  the 
best way to gert through it all is to remember the good things, always have a 
few good memories on hand, remember who you love and keep track of those who 
love you, and to especially remember to have fun the way you like to.  it 
always helps to sit and think, (even when you should be doing something else),
and laughing helps like you wouldnt believe, and crying is just about the 
best medicine i know.  laughing and crying, to me, are completely 
interchangeable, and almost equally relieving.  there have been times when i 
really want to laugh, but all i can do is cry.  there have also been times 
when i have wanted nothing more than to cry, but i just laugh.  and i usually 
laugh because i have to step back and look at myself, and i look pretty damn 
funny, all worried about this or that and things that will never mean a thing 
in two months.  once on this past trip, the question arose, where do you get 
your strenghts? and i had to say, from both laughing and crying, and most of 
all remembering.  if i didnt have a memory, i would really have to shrivel up 
and die, i would just have nothing to live for.  remembering is the best way 
to get through things, to solve things in the future, and it really is the 
structure of our lives, at least mine.  if i ever got alzheimers, i dont know 
how id live.  id have to get everyone ive ever known and loved into one big 
room and have them all keep telling me over and over whats been happening so 
i wouldnt completely lose it.  simple things really are the most deep and 
thought provoking things of all. like, i could ask, what happens when you 
die, like a little kid would think, but the answers are endless and one would 
have to reserve two days vacation to think about it.  and i dont really know 
what kind of music you listen to (hey, what kind of music do you listen to??) 
but music is like the perfect cure for any heartache or head trouble.  i can 
listen and enjoy almost anything, any type of music, but i have a tape i made 
of my favorites, the ones that make me think, the ones that make me smile, 
the ones that make my cry.

	-Kristen Vacek
%
"Fake Christians"
From I Know Just How You Feel
by: Cheryl Meier.

...I guess the world is like this too.  We're always expected to act like 
we're okay, not letting on if we're experiencing pain or unhappiness or grief.
You can't go to school crying, or to work looking depressed, or to church 
showing deep pain in your eyes.
	I get so sick of the way the world is!  I run to my pillow in my 
room, lock the door, and talk to God.  He is the only person I can be real 
with.  He knows my heart, my thoughts, my fears, my pain-and He truly cares.
	God does not record how long our quiet time was or how many people 
we talked to today.  He wants you and me to come to Him in all realness and 
let Him know what's going on in our lives.  He doesn't want us to smile and 
say, "Oh, I'm doing just fine, thanks!"  God is not like someone at camp or 
at school who thinks you are a drag or crazy if you say, "Well, I'm kind of 
depressed today."  It we're not doing okay, God can deal with it.
	People who feel that they have to put on religious airs end up 
suffering more because they are ignoring all the sadness and anger they feel.
How real do you think they are with God if they cannot even be real with 
themselves?  How meaningful are their times alone in prayer or reading the 
Bible if they don't think there's anything wrong with them?  How comforting 
are their relationships with other people if they can't share what's really 
bothering them?

Jesus...said to them, "Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick,  I did not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance."
  Mark 2:17  
%
   Well here are a few reasons that guys like girls
                
   1. They will always smell good even if its just shampoo
   2. The way their heads always find the right spot on our
shoulder
   3. How cute they look when they sleep
   4. the ease in which they fit into our arms
   5. the way they kiss you and all of a sudden everything is
right in the world
   6. How cute they are when they eat
   7. The way they take hours to get dressed but in the end it
makes it all  worth while
   8. because they are always warm even when its minus 30 out
side
   9. the way they look good no matter what they wear
   10. the way they fish for compliments even though you both
know that you think she's the most beautiful thing on this earth
   11. How cute they are when they argue
   12. the way her hand always finds yours
   13. the way they smile
   14. the way you feel when you see their name on the call ID
after you just had a big fight
   15. the way she says "lets not fight anymore" even though you
know that an hour later....
   16. the way they kiss when you do something nice for them
   17. The way they kiss you when you say "I love you'
   18. actually... just the way they kiss you...
   19. the way they fall into your arms when they cry
   20. then the way they apologize for crying over something that
silly 
   21. The way they hit you and expect it to hurt
   22. then the way apologize when it does hurt ..(even though we
don't admit it!)
   23. the way they say "I miss you"
   24. the way you miss them
   25. the way their tears make you want to change the world so
that it doesn't hurt her anymore.....Yet regardless if you love them, hate
them, wish they would die or know that you would die without them... it
matters not.  Because once in your life, whatever they were to the world they
become everything to you. When you look them in the eyes, traveling to the
depths of their souls and you say a million things without trace of a sound,
you know that your own life is inevitable consumed within the rhythmic
beatings of  her very heart.  We love them for a million reasons, No paper
would do it  justice. It is a thing not of the mind but of the heart. A
feeling. Only felt.
%
And so they would go on, apart or together as love and chance and time 
might decree, surrounded always by the silent, beloved dead, and answering 
their silence with the shout of life.  That was the invisible treasure box 
that Quentin had been given long ago but only now found and opened.  There 
was power in it; the kind of power that dissappears when it is taken, yet 
grows as fast as children when it is shared.
	-Orson Scott Card
%
Out of place is he that would have everything and live for nothing,
and it is he who will die from starvation of the soul.
	- Doh
%
Dum loquimur, fugerit invida aetas: carpe diem, quam 
minimum credula postero.
	- Quintus Horatius Flaccus
%
So long as men can breathe, or eyes can see,
So long lives this, and gives life to thee.
	- William Shakespeare
%
Without a hurt,
the heart is hollow.
	- The Fantastiks
%
Ah, but the choice of dreams to live,
there's the rub.

For all dreams are not equal,
some exit to nightmare
most end with the dreamer

But at least one must be lived ... and died.
	- Unknown
%
Never mistake your watermelon for the universe.
	- Ken Abdaluh
%
The early bird gets the worm,
but the second mouse gets the cheese.
	- I forget
%
"alas my love you say goodbye
wipe the poison from my brow
alas my love this guilty night
it gives me up like a foster child
and in the moment i take my vow
these angels sleeping at my feet
and in this moment you do not know how
my spirit wants to flee."

One man, against the night
taking on a multitude
that had left him high and dry
no cangle burning vigil
could light the way,
darkness hit the ground
like a fallen satellite
he wrestled until morning
with human souls
and dark angels
and finished his work
on the third day


remember...
%
*out of place is she who would live forever with everything,
when all she wants is to have nothing, and it is she who 
will suffer incurably*
	- Doh
%
Comment scrawled in the dirt
For the pity-boy cowered in hurt
Of a bridge that instead is burning
And a new boy that instead is learning
That it's harder sometimes to be than not
And it's easier forgiven than forgot
He says it's by the tree that you have died
It's by the tree that you're alive
	- Caedmon's Call, "Suicidal Stones"
%
Let me not to the marriage of true minds
Admit impediments.  Love is not love
Which alters when it alteration finds,
Or bends with the remover to remove:
O, no! it is an ever-fixed mark,
That looks on tempests and is never shaken;
It is the star to every wandering bark,
Whose worth's unknown, although his height be taken.
Love's not Time's fool, though rosy lips and cheeks
Within his bending sickle's compass come;
Love alters not with his brief hours and weeks,
But bears it out even to the edge of doom.
If this be error and upon me proved,
I never writ, nor no man ever loved.
%
Tread lightly to the music,
Nor bruise the tender grass,
Life passes in the weather
As the sand storms down the glass.
Drift easy in the shadows,
Bask lazy in the sun,
Give thanks for thirsts and quenches,
For dines, and wines and wenches,
Give thought to life soon over,
Tread softly on the clover,
So bruise not any lover.
So exit from the living,
Salute and make thanksgiving,
Then sleep when all is done,
That sleep so dearly won.
%
The first marriage is the triumph of imagination over intelligence,
and the second the triumph of hope over experience.
%
We are not loved by our friends for what we are; rather, we are loved in
spite of what we are.
		-- Victor Hugo
